As we continue our consideration of the promises of peace in Isaiah's prophecies,
I'd like you to imagine an Israelite living in Babylon.
Now, he's just learned that Jews can return to Jerusalem and help to rebuild the temple.
So he must decide if he and his family will leave Babylon to make the long trip to his homeland.
What might he consider?
Well, after 70 years, the land must have changed.
Fields would be overgrown with weeds, wolves, leopards, lions, and bears must freely walk in the fields.
Snakes make their home there.
So he might ask himself,
will my domestic animals be killed by predators?
Will my small children be bitten by snakes?
And what about the danger of fierce men attacking us on the journey home?
Well, any such fears could be dispelled by considering the prophecy at Isaiah chapter 11 verses 6 through 9.
Let's read that together.
Isaiah chapter 11,
and notice this promise of peace starting in verse 6.
The wolf will reside for a while with the lamb,
and with the young goat, the leopard will lie down,
and the calf and the lion and the fat and animal will all be together.
And a little boy will lead them.
The cow and the bear will feed together, and their young will lie down together.
The lion will eat straw like the bull.
The nursing child will play over the layer of a cobra,
and a wing child would put his hand over the den of a poisonous snake.
They will not cause any harm or any ruin in all my holy mountain,
because the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters cover the sea.
What a beautiful promise of peace!
Jews wouldn't need to fear wild animals or fierce men on their journey home or in their restored land.
With these poetic words,
Jehovah assured the exiles that they and their livestock would be safe.
He would bless them with peace.
And did you notice, according to verse 7,
the lion would symbolically eat straw,
illustrating that lions wouldn't kill the Jews cattle.
Faithful ones would have nothing to fear from animal or human predators.
Do we see this prophecy being fulfilled in our day?
Not with the literal animals, but we do see a spiritual fulfillment.
Notice again the end of verse 9.
It says the earth will certainly be filled with the knowledge of Jehovah.
Now does the knowledge of Jehovah change the behavior of animals?
No, but the knowledge of God does change people.
In our day, the knowledge of Jehovah helps people who are violent to transform their personality and become peaceable.
In harmony with Colossians chapter 3 verse 10,
these ones have clothed themselves with the new personality.
They've stripped off animalistic violent tendencies and transformed their lives in harmony with what the Bible teaches.
They get along peaceably with others.
Perhaps you know someone who made such changes.
Or perhaps you made these changes, leaving behind a violent way of life.
Let me share with you such an experience.
A man named Jose was trained in the martial arts and in the use of weapons.
He had broken the law so many times that he was brought to trial on 22 counts and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
He was so violent that even fellow inmates were afraid of him and he was kept in a high security cell.
For seven years his fleshly sister, who was one of Jehovah's witnesses, visited him.
But he always rejected the Bible's message.
In time though, he accepted one of our publications and a Bible study was started.
Right away he made tremendous changes in his conduct.
One week later he gave a personal witness to 200 prisoners and the following week to 600 more.
He even received permission to visit the inmates in other prison blocks.
While due to the remarkable change in his behavior, his sentence was reduced to 15 years.
However, after serving just 10 years he was released from prison.
Jose was eventually baptized as one of Jehovah's witnesses.
Truly a case of the wolf residing with the lamb.
And what about the future fulfillment of Isaiah 11 verses 6-9?
In the earthly paradise that God has promised, there will be delightful peace among humans and between humans and animals.
Don't you long for that time?
As you watch the following video, notice the peace we enjoy with fellow believers now
and just imagine the peace that we'll enjoy in paradise.
How would you feel during a long journey where you might meet wild animals and criminals along the road?
Jehovah assured the returning exiles that they would return in safety and dwell in peace.
In the spiritual paradise we enjoy right now, people who were once violent have learned to be humble, loving and peaceable.
Imagine the peace that will reign in God's new world where we can wander this beautiful glows, explore every corner,
and admire the handy work of the true God with no fear.
They will do no harm nor cause any ruin in all my holy mountain says Jehovah.
As the video showed, people who were once violent have learned to be humble, loving and peaceable.
And how did you feel when you saw scenes in the video of humans so close to wild animals?
Jehovah's promise of peace among humans and peace between humans and animals is thrilling.
Please notice what Isaiah further wrote about this piece at Isaiah chapter 65.
Please turn there with me Isaiah 65.
Now these are words similar to those we read earlier at Isaiah chapter 11.
Isaiah 65 verse 25.
The wolf and the lamb will feed together.
The lion will eat straw just like the bull.
And the serpent's food will be dust.
They will do no harm nor cause any ruin in all my holy mountain says Jehovah.
Skilled artists in the art department at world headquarters beautifully illustrate such scenes
and the images can be found in our publications.
But what Isaiah describes is no artist's rendition.
This will be real.
Think how you'll feel when you're not afraid of wild animals and the animals aren't afraid of you.
As we look forward to that future promise of peace, what can we do now to pursue peace?
One thing is to contribute to the peace of our spiritual paradise, the secure, spiritually prosperous environment in which we worship Jehovah.
Jesus stated at Matthew chapter 5 verse 9, happy are the peacemakers.
A peacemaker is skilled at restoring peace among brothers when peace is disturbed.
But more importantly, a peacemaker strives to avoid disturbing peace in the first place.
Does peacemaker describe you?
Are you contributing to our spiritual paradise in that way?
Something else we can do as we await the future fulfillment of the wolf and the lamb feeding together
is to meditate on what it will be like to help resurrected ones who were violent to become peaceable.
Imagine studying with a resurrected one who had a violent background, perhaps experiencing a violent death because of a fierce personality.
How will you reason with the person from God's word to help him see the need to be a peacemaker?
What examples of such transformations will you share?
And how will you explain the prophecies of peace at Isaiah chapter 11 verses 6 through 9 and chapter 65 verse 25?
We encourage all of you to think deeply about how this promise of peace was fulfilled for the ancient Jews, how the promise is being fulfilled today,
and what life on earth will be like when it's fulfilled in the future.
May all of us take delight in the peaceful promise of the wolf and the lamb feeding together.
Where the James Mance, a helper to the writing committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Take delight in God's promises of peace.
No resident will say, I am sick.